README.md, before:

# access-data-gov-sg

## Purpose
Exploration, downloading and post-processing of data from [data.gov.sg](https://data.gov.sg).

## Software
1. [explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb](explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb) - initial exploration of the
data.gov.sg APIs for meteorological station data.
1. [get_data_gov_sg_met.py](get_data_gov_sg_met.py) - download meteorological station data for a
specific month via the data.gov.sg APIs, and save in gzipped CSV files.

The software contained in this repository is released under the MIT License.

## Data
### Gzipped CSV files
[data_gov_sg_met_v1/](data_gov_sg_met_v1/) contains gzipped CSV files produced by
[get_data_gov_sg_met.py](get_data_gov_sg_met.py).
The file naming convention is as follows:
    `data_gov_sg_met_v1/<variable>_<yyyy-mm>_c<today>.csv.gz`
where <today> is the date on which the file was created. For example,
    `data_gov_sg_met_v1/wind-speed_2017-02_c20170526.csv.gz`.

### Time interval
When querying the API, a time interval of **5-minutes** is used. Hence, the shortest time interval
in the output files is 5-minutes, even if input data are available at a more frequent time
resolution.

### Metadata
Based on [explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb](explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb), the important metadata for
each variable are as follows:

Variable | reading_type | reading_unit | other
---------|--------------|--------------|------
rainfall | TB1 Rainfall 5 Minute Total F | mm |
wind-speed | Wind Speed AVG(S)10M M1M | knots |
wind-direction | Wind Dir AVG (S) 10M M1M | degrees |
air-temperature | DBT 1M F | deg C |
relative-humidity | RH 1M F | percentage |
pm25 | | | pm25_one_hourly

### Input data terms of use
For further information about the input data used to derive the output CSV files, please see
[developers.data.gov.sg](https://developers.data.gov.sg).
The [Singapore Open Data License](https://data.gov.sg/open-data-licence) v1.0 states that one
*"can use, access, download, copy, distribute, transmit, modify and adapt the datasets [provided by
data.gov.sg], or any derived analyses or applications, whether commercially or non-commercially"*
provided that attribution is given to data.gov.sg.
The License (v1.0) also states that one
*"must not Use the datasets in a way that suggests any official status or that an Agency endorses
you or your Use of the datasets"* - to clarify, this GitHub repository has no official status.
For further information, please see:
1. The [Singapore Open Data License](https://data.gov.sg/open-data-licence); *and*
1. The [API Terms of Service](https://data.gov.sg/api-terms).

### Suggested acknowledgment
If you use any of the data published in this repository, I recommend including an acknowledgement
that makes clear that the data are derived from data published by data.gov.sg, e.g.

*"The data have been downloaded from https://github.com/grandey/access-data-gov-sg, and are
derived from data published by data.gov.sg (https://data.gov.sg) under the terms of the
Singapore Open Data License version 1.0 (https://data.gov.sg/open-data-licence)."*

## Author
Benjamin S. Grandey, 2017

Commit message:

Making time interval dependent on variable
Also deleting rainfall_2016_12_c20170529.csv.gz, following update to
download script.

README.md, after:

# access-data-gov-sg

## Purpose
Exploration, downloading and post-processing of data from [data.gov.sg](https://data.gov.sg).

## Software
1. [explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb](explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb) - initial exploration of the
data.gov.sg APIs for meteorological station data.
1. [get_data_gov_sg_met.py](get_data_gov_sg_met.py) - download meteorological station data for a
specific month via the data.gov.sg APIs, and save in gzipped CSV files.

The software contained in this repository is released under the MIT License.

## Data
### Gzipped CSV files
[data_gov_sg_met_v1/](data_gov_sg_met_v1/) contains gzipped CSV files produced by
[get_data_gov_sg_met.py](get_data_gov_sg_met.py).
The file naming convention is as follows:
    `data_gov_sg_met_v1/<variable>_<yyyy-mm>_c<today>.csv.gz`
where <today> is the date on which the file was created. For example,
    `data_gov_sg_met_v1/wind-speed_2017-02_c20170526.csv.gz`.

### Time interval
When querying the API, the following time intervals are used:
1-hour for pm25; 5-minutes for rainfall; and 1-minute for for the other variables.

### Metadata
Based on [explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb](explore_data_gov_sg_api.ipynb), the important metadata for
each variable are as follows:

Variable | reading_type | reading_unit | other
---------|--------------|--------------|------
rainfall | TB1 Rainfall 5 Minute Total F | mm |
wind-speed | Wind Speed AVG(S)10M M1M | knots |
wind-direction | Wind Dir AVG (S) 10M M1M | degrees |
air-temperature | DBT 1M F | deg C |
relative-humidity | RH 1M F | percentage |
pm25 | | | pm25_one_hourly

### Input data terms of use
For further information about the input data used to derive the output CSV files, please see
[developers.data.gov.sg](https://developers.data.gov.sg).
The [Singapore Open Data License](https://data.gov.sg/open-data-licence) v1.0 states that one
*"can use, access, download, copy, distribute, transmit, modify and adapt the datasets [provided by
data.gov.sg], or any derived analyses or applications, whether commercially or non-commercially"*
provided that attribution is given to data.gov.sg.
The License (v1.0) also states that one
*"must not Use the datasets in a way that suggests any official status or that an Agency endorses
you or your Use of the datasets"* - to clarify, this GitHub repository has no official status.
For further information, please see:
1. The [Singapore Open Data License](https://data.gov.sg/open-data-licence); *and*
1. The [API Terms of Service](https://data.gov.sg/api-terms).

### Suggested acknowledgment
If you use any of the data published in this repository, I recommend including an acknowledgement
that makes clear that the data are derived from data published by data.gov.sg, e.g.

*"The data have been downloaded from https://github.com/grandey/access-data-gov-sg, and are
derived from data published by data.gov.sg (https://data.gov.sg) under the terms of the
Singapore Open Data License version 1.0 (https://data.gov.sg/open-data-licence)."*

## Author
Benjamin S. Grandey, 2017
